README.md, before:


## MAFIA

CLI tool for Iso19139 Administration
Requires Java RE 1.7


### TODO
- removal of saxon dependency.
    Note need for factory.setNamespaceAware(true) in non-saxon implementation

- support options read from a configuration file (eg. connection credentials)
- factor transform/validation pipeline from database manipulation
- review older examples
- done - remove need to specify the class
- done - rename artifact from myartifact.jar

### Build
    mvn clean install

### Warning

This utility performs no concurrent update checking so it is recommended to 
shutdown the geonetwork instance which needs to be updated to prevent
concurrent updates by the application


### Examples



##### Get help
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar -help

usage: Updater
 -all                   etl applies to all metadata records
 -context               expose additional metadata fields (eg. record uuid) to
                        etl
 -help                  show help
 -pass <arg>            password
 -stdout                dump result to stdout
 -transform <arg>       transform stylesheet (.xslt) file to use
 -update                perform inplace update of the metadata record
 -url <arg>             jdbc connection string, eg.
                        jdbc:postgresql://127.0.0.1/geonetwork
 -user <arg>            user
 -uuid <arg>            etl applies to specific metadata record
 -selected <arg>        etl applies to selected metadata record uuids listed in the provided file
 -isharvested <arg>     etl applies to harvested or non-harvested metadata records depending upon provided value (y or n)
 -istemplate <arg>     etl applies to template records depending upon provided value (y or n)
 -validate <arg>        validation schema (.xsd) file to use  or provide schema folder (schema.xsd will be selected depending upon schema type)
 -invalids <arg>        provide a name of the file to list all invalid uuids
 -xmloutputpath <arg>   provide a folder path to store xml files

```

##### Apply explicit identity transform
```
TODO: Fixme!
java -jar ./validate/target/validate-1.0.0.jar \
  -source ./resources/argo.xml \
  -validate /home/meteo/imos/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/schema.xsd \
  -transform resources/identity.xml \
  | less
```

##### Apply explicit identity transform and validation using schema folder instead of schema (.xsd) file
```
java -jar ./validate/target/validate-1.0.0.jar \
  -source ./resources/argo.xml \
  -validate /home/meteo/imos/schema-plugins \
  -transform resources/identity.xml \
  | less
```


##### Dump untransformed Argo record to stdout
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -uuid 4402cb50-e20a-44ee-93e6-4728259250d2 \
  -stdout
```

##### Validate Argo record against mcp-2 schema
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -uuid 4402cb50-e20a-44ee-93e6-4728259250d2 \
  -validate ../mcp-2.0/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/schema.xsd
```

##### Validate all records against mcp-2 schema and generate report
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -all \
  -validate ../mcp-2.0/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/schema.xsd \
  > report.txt
```


##### Transform Argo record from draft mcp-2 to mcp-2 and validate but do not update
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -uuid 4402cb50-e20a-44ee-93e6-4728259250d2 \
  -transform ../mcp-2.0/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/convert/from_mcp2_draft.xsl \
  -validate ../mcp-2.0/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/schema.xsd
```


##### Transform Argo record from draft mcp-2 to mcp-2 and perform in-place update
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -uuid 4402cb50-e20a-44ee-93e6-4728259250d2 \
  -transform ../mcp-2.0/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/convert/from_mcp2_draft.xsl \
  -update
```

##### Transform Argo record from mcp-2 to iso19139 and validate
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -uuid 4402cb50-e20a-44ee-93e6-4728259250d2 \
  -transform ../mcp-2.0/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/convert/to19139.xsl \
  -validate ../mcp-2.0/iso19139/schema.xsd
```


##### Port forward vagrant box postgres instance and dump all records to stdout
```
Fixme!

ssh -L :9000:localhost:5432  10.11.12.13

java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://127.0.0.1:9000/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -all -stdout
```

##### List non harvested and non template metadata record uuids with schema validation errors
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar  \ 
    -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
    -all \
    - isharvested n \
    - istemplate n \
    -validate /path/to/schema-plugins \
    -invalids invalids.txt 
```

##### Transform to fix validation errors for selected list of uuids and downloads metadata.xml (before and after applying fix)
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar 
    -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
    -selected invalids.txt \
    -validate /path/to/schema-plugins \
    -transform /path/to/fix-mcp-schema-validation.xsl \
    -xmloutputpath /tmp/gn-validate-imos-xml 
```

Commit message:

[3901] Add license info to LICENSE.md

README.md, after:


# MAFIA

CLI tool for Iso19139 Administration
Requires Java RE 1.7

## Licensing
This project is licensed under the terms of the GNU GPLv3 license.

## TODO
- removal of saxon dependency.
    Note need for factory.setNamespaceAware(true) in non-saxon implementation

- support options read from a configuration file (eg. connection credentials)
- factor transform/validation pipeline from database manipulation
- review older examples
- done - remove need to specify the class
- done - rename artifact from myartifact.jar

## Build
    mvn clean install

## Warning

This utility performs no concurrent update checking so it is recommended to 
shutdown the geonetwork instance which needs to be updated to prevent
concurrent updates by the application


## Examples



#### Get help
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar -help

usage: Updater
 -all                   etl applies to all metadata records
 -context               expose additional metadata fields (eg. record uuid) to
                        etl
 -help                  show help
 -pass <arg>            password
 -stdout                dump result to stdout
 -transform <arg>       transform stylesheet (.xslt) file to use
 -update                perform inplace update of the metadata record
 -url <arg>             jdbc connection string, eg.
                        jdbc:postgresql://127.0.0.1/geonetwork
 -user <arg>            user
 -uuid <arg>            etl applies to specific metadata record
 -selected <arg>        etl applies to selected metadata record uuids listed in the provided file
 -isharvested <arg>     etl applies to harvested or non-harvested metadata records depending upon provided value (y or n)
 -istemplate <arg>     etl applies to template records depending upon provided value (y or n)
 -validate <arg>        validation schema (.xsd) file to use  or provide schema folder (schema.xsd will be selected depending upon schema type)
 -invalids <arg>        provide a name of the file to list all invalid uuids
 -xmloutputpath <arg>   provide a folder path to store xml files

```

#### Apply explicit identity transform
```
TODO: Fixme!
java -jar ./validate/target/validate-1.0.0.jar \
  -source ./resources/argo.xml \
  -validate /home/meteo/imos/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/schema.xsd \
  -transform resources/identity.xml \
  | less
```

#### Apply explicit identity transform and validation using schema folder instead of schema (.xsd) file
```
java -jar ./validate/target/validate-1.0.0.jar \
  -source ./resources/argo.xml \
  -validate /home/meteo/imos/schema-plugins \
  -transform resources/identity.xml \
  | less
```


#### Dump untransformed Argo record to stdout
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -uuid 4402cb50-e20a-44ee-93e6-4728259250d2 \
  -stdout
```

#### Validate Argo record against mcp-2 schema
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -uuid 4402cb50-e20a-44ee-93e6-4728259250d2 \
  -validate ../mcp-2.0/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/schema.xsd
```

#### Validate all records against mcp-2 schema and generate report
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -all \
  -validate ../mcp-2.0/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/schema.xsd \
  > report.txt
```


#### Transform Argo record from draft mcp-2 to mcp-2 and validate but do not update
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -uuid 4402cb50-e20a-44ee-93e6-4728259250d2 \
  -transform ../mcp-2.0/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/convert/from_mcp2_draft.xsl \
  -validate ../mcp-2.0/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/schema.xsd
```


#### Transform Argo record from draft mcp-2 to mcp-2 and perform in-place update
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -uuid 4402cb50-e20a-44ee-93e6-4728259250d2 \
  -transform ../mcp-2.0/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/convert/from_mcp2_draft.xsl \
  -update
```

#### Transform Argo record from mcp-2 to iso19139 and validate
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -uuid 4402cb50-e20a-44ee-93e6-4728259250d2 \
  -transform ../mcp-2.0/schema-plugins/iso19139.mcp-2.0/convert/to19139.xsl \
  -validate ../mcp-2.0/iso19139/schema.xsd
```


#### Port forward vagrant box postgres instance and dump all records to stdout
```
Fixme!

ssh -L :9000:localhost:5432  10.11.12.13

java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar \
  -url jdbc:postgresql://127.0.0.1:9000/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
  -all -stdout
```

#### List non harvested and non template metadata record uuids with schema validation errors
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar  \ 
    -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
    -all \
    - isharvested n \
    - istemplate n \
    -validate /path/to/schema-plugins \
    -invalids invalids.txt 
```

#### Transform to fix validation errors for selected list of uuids and downloads metadata.xml (before and after applying fix)
```
java -jar ./mafia/target/mafia-1.0.0.jar 
    -url jdbc:postgresql://geonetwork2/geonetwork -user geonetwork -pass geonetwork \
    -selected invalids.txt \
    -validate /path/to/schema-plugins \
    -transform /path/to/fix-mcp-schema-validation.xsl \
    -xmloutputpath /tmp/gn-validate-imos-xml 
```
